Revised Jira integration page to be more task-based (#396)
OctopusDeploy/docs: docs/api-and-integration/metadata/jira.md

---
title: Jira Issue Tracking Integration
description: Configure Jira Cloud and Jira Server issue tracking with Octopus.
---

> **Octopus 2019.4** introduced support to integrate Octopus with Jira Cloud and Jira Server. The integration adds links to Jira issues in release details, and release notes (see what's new in a deployment to production for example) to Octopus from Jira. If you're using Jira Cloud, you can also view release and deployment details from Octopus directly in Jira issues, making it possible to see if the issue has been included in any deployments. This builds upon the functionality to [track metadata and work item](/docs/api-and-integration/metadata/index.md) information through your CI/CD pipeline.

Author: ```suggestion
**Octopus 2019.4** introduced support to integrate Octopus with Jira Cloud and Jira Server. The integration adds links to Jira issues in release details of your deployments, and adds release notes to Octopus from Jira to help automate the release note process. If you're using Jira Cloud, you can also view release and deployment details from Octopus directly in Jira issues, making it possible to see if the issue has been included in any deployments. This feature builds upon the functionality to [track metadata and work item](/docs/api-and-integration/metadata/index.md) information through your CI/CD pipeline.
```

I'm probably being picky, but the comment in parenthesis feels out of place/breaks the flow. 
I've also added a bit of clarification to `Jira issues in release details`.

![Octopus release with Jira issues](octopus-release-details.png "width=500")

![Octopus deployment with generated release notes](octopus-release-notes.png "width=500")

> This page described how to configure Octopus and Jira.

Author: ```suggestion
This page described how to configure this functionality for Octopus and Jira.
```

* Learn about [Connecting Jira Server and Octopus Deploy](#connecting-jira-server-and-octopus-deploy)
* Learn about [Connecting Jira Cloud and Octopus Deploy](#connecting-jira-cloud-and-octopus-deploy)

---

## Connecting Jira Server and Octopus Deploy

> This section describes how to configure Octopus Deploy to connect to Jira Server. In all cases for this integration, connections are always made to Jira (either from Octopus server itself or via links in the browser). There are no cases where Jira connects to Octopus.

Author: ```suggestion
This section describes how to configure Octopus Deploy to connect to Jira Server. When configured, this integration adds links in Octopus Deploy (either in the Octopus server itself or via links in the browser) back to your Jira issues. There are no cases where Jira adds links to Octopus.
```

I've tried to make the link more explicit with `add links` and not rely on `to` as it was kinda ambiguous in this context.

Reviewer: This suggestion doesn't quite fit as Octopus talks to Jira for more things than just links. I do like your change for `When configured ... ` so I'll add that manually. :)

> What this means is that you can configure any Octopus instance, whether self-hosted or cloud, to use the Jira integration. The only network connectivity requirements are that your Octopus server and your browser can connect to the Jira Base URL discussed below.

Author: ```suggestion
This means you can configure any Octopus instance, whether self-hosted or cloud, to use the Jira integration. The only network connectivity requirements are that your Octopus server and your browser can connect to the Jira Base URL discussed below.
```

If you are using Jira Server, see [Connecting Jira Cloud and Octopus Deploy](#connecting-jira-cloud-and-octopus-deploy).

<!-- I've left this blank so we can review/agree upon the Jira Cloud copy first and then strip it appropriately to suit the Jira Server copy. -->

## Connecting Jira Cloud and Octopus Deploy

> This section describes how to configure Octopus Deploy to connect to Jira Cloud. In all cases for this integration, connections are always made to Jira (either from Octopus server itself or via links in the browser). There are no cases where Jira connects to Octopus.

Author: ```suggestion
This section describes how to configure Octopus Deploy to connect to Jira Cloud. When configured, this integration adds links in Octopus Deploy (either in the Octopus server itself or via links in the browser) back to your Jira issues. There are no cases where Jira adds links to Octopus.
```
Changed to match the suggestion for the same text in Jira Server (if my interpretation is correct).

Author: If the additional features section below moves up above this we can delete: `This section describes how to configure Octopus Deploy to connect to Jira Cloud.` from this paragraph to remove the duplication.

> What this means is that you can configure any Octopus instance, whether self-hosted or cloud, to use the Jira integration. The only network connectivity requirements are that your Octopus server and your browser can connect to the Jira Base URL discussed below.

Author: ```suggestion
This means you can configure any Octopus instance, whether self-hosted or cloud, to use the Jira integration. The only network connectivity requirements are that your Octopus server and your browser can connect to the Jira Base URL discussed below.
```

> Further, there is additional functionality available for Jira Cloud customers via the Octopus Deploy plugin for Jira that's available from the [Atlassian Marketplace](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1220376/octopus-deploy-for-jira) and the following steps describe how to configure this. This functionality enables teams to view release and deployment details from Octopus directly in Jira issues. If you are using Jira Server, see [Connecting Jira Server and Octopus Deploy](#connecting-jira-server-and-octopus-deploy).

Author: I think this note about additional functionality should come first in this section. Slight tweak to the wording:
```suggestion
If you are using Jira Cloud, you can use the Octopus Deploy plugin for Jira that's available from the [Atlassian Marketplace](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1220376/octopus-deploy-for-jira) to enable teams to view release and deployment details from Octopus directly in Jira issues. This section and the following steps describe how to configure this.

If you are using Jira Server, see [Connecting Jira Server and Octopus Deploy](#connecting-jira-server-and-octopus-deploy).
```

![Jira Issue with deployments](jira-issue-with-deployments.png "width=500")

1. Install the Octopus Deploy plugin in your Jira Cloud instance.

>     Add the `Octopus Deploy for Jira` app directly from the [Atlassian Marketplace](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1220376/octopus-deploy-for-jira) and then click the 'Get Started' button to configure it. Alternately, this is available in Jira under **{{Jira Settings,Find new apps}}**.

Author: ```suggestion
    From the Atlassian Marketplace, add the [Octopus Deploy for Jira](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1220376/octopus-deploy-for-jira) app and click 'Get Started' to configure it. Alternately, the app is also available in Jira by navigation to **{{Jira Settings,Find new apps}}**.
```
Minor tweaks to put the first thing they need (the marketplace) first, then the second thing (the app) second.

>     Note: Keep this configuration page open while you complete the next steps as you need to copy values from one application to the other.

Author: ```suggestion
    Note: Keep this configuration page open while you complete the next steps as you need to copy values between Octopus and Jira.
```

> 1. Configure the Jira extension in Octopus Deploy.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Configure the Jira extension in Octopus Deploy.
```

>     Navigate to the **{{Configuration,Settings,Jira Issue Tracker}}** page in Octopus and copy the following values from the Jira App configuration page:

Author: ```suggestion
    In the Octopus web portal, navigate to **{{Configuration,Settings,Jira Issue Tracker}}** and copy the following values from the Jira App configuration page:
```

>     - Jira Base URL. Set this so Octopus knows where your Jira instance can be found and enables Octopus to render the links back to Jira issues. i.e., https://your-jira-instance.atlassian.net.

Author: ```suggestion
    - **Jira Base URL**. This tells Octopus where your Jira instance is located and enables Octopus to render the links back to Jira issues. i.e., https://your-jira-instance.atlassian.net.
```

>     - Jira Connect App Password.

Author: ```suggestion
    - **Jira Connect App Password**.
```

    <!-- Lee: I noted work item in brackets above to make the connection between the two terms. Is that sufficent? I've used Jira issue primarily on this page as it's what the audience understands but work item is our term. Need advice on this. -->

    The password should be an API Token, rather than an actual password. You can create an API token from an Atlassian account in the 'Security' area.
    
    - **Release Note Prefix**: If specified, Octopus will look for a comment that starts with the given prefix text and use whatever text appears after the prefix as the release note, which will come through to the release notes templates etc as the work item link's description. If not comment is found with the prefix then Octopus will default back to using the title for that work item.

    For example, a prefix of `Release note:` can be used to identify a customer friendly issue title vs a technical feature or bug fix title.

> 1. Ensure the Octopus Server URL is set.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Ensure the Octopus Server URL is set.
```

> 1. Ensure the Octopus Server URL in set in Octopus Deploy.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Ensure the Octopus Server URL is set.
```

    If you are using Octopus Cloud, this value is automatically set for you. If you are not using Octopus Cloud, navigate to the **{{Configuration,Nodes}}** page and ensure you have set the Server URI field to your Octopus Server's base URL. i.e., https://my-company.octopus.app/ or https://my-company-internal-name/
    Note: Octopus passes this value to Jira so it can build hyperlinks back to the deployments from its UI. It never actually tries to connect to this Url itself.

> 1. Configure the Octopus plugin in Jira.

Author: ```suggestion
5. Configure the Octopus plugin in Jira.
```

    Navigate to the **{{Configuration,Settings,Jira Issue Tracker}}** page in Octopus, copy the **Octopus InstallationID**, and add it to Jira App configuration.

> 1. Update your environment settings in Octopus Deploy.

Author: ```suggestion
6. Update your environment settings in Octopus Deploy.
```

> 6. Update your environment settings in Octopus Deploy.

Author: ```suggestion
6. In Octopus Deploy update your environment settings.
```

    - **Jira Base URL**. This tells Octopus where your Jira instance is located and enables Octopus to render the links back to Jira issues. i.e., https://your-jira-instance.atlassian.net.
    - **Jira Connect App Password**.

    Ensure the **Is Enabled** property is set as well.

3. In Octopus Deploy Configure the Release Note Options (optional).

    - **Jira username/password**: Set these values to allow Octopus to connect to Jira and retrieve Jira issue (work item) details when viewing packages or creating releases. If these are not provided, just the raw work item references will be used as the work item link descriptions. If they are provided the work item's title will be used as the work item link's description.

    <!-- Lee: I noted work item in brackets above to make the connection between the two terms. Is that sufficent? I've used Jira issue primarily on this page as it's what the audience understands but work item is our term. Need advice on this. -->

    The password should be an API Token, rather than an actual password. You can create an API token from an Atlassian account in the 'Security' area.
    

>     - **Release Note Prefix**: Set this if you would like Octopus to scan the Jira issue's comments for release notes. This allows you to set a specific release note for a work item that is different to its title.

Author: ```suggestion
    - **Release Note Prefix**: If specified, Octopus will look for a comment that starts with the given prefix text and use whatever text appears after the prefix as the release note, which will come through to the release notes templates etc as the work item link's description. If not comment is found with the prefix then Octopus will default back to using the title for that work item.
```

>     This is an optional setting and depends on the Jira Username and Jira Password being set. If specified, Octopus will look for a comment that starts with the given prefix text and use whatever text appears after the prefix as the release note, which will come through to the release notes templates etc as the work item link's description. If not comment is found with the prefix then Octopus will default back to using the title for that work item.

Author: ```suggestion
```

If you are using Jira Server, see [Connecting Jira Server and Octopus Deploy](#connecting-jira-server-and-octopus-deploy).

![Jira Issue with deployments](jira-issue-with-deployments.png "width=500")

1. Install the Octopus Deploy plugin in your Jira Cloud instance.

    From the Atlassian Marketplace, add the [Octopus Deploy for Jira](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1220376/octopus-deploy-for-jira) app and click 'Get Started' to configure it. Alternately, the app is also available in Jira by navigation to **{{Jira Settings,Find new apps}}**.

    Note: Keep this configuration page open while you complete the next steps as you need to copy values between Octopus and Jira.

2. Configure the Jira extension in Octopus Deploy.

    In the Octopus web portal, navigate to **{{Configuration,Settings,Jira Issue Tracker}}** and copy the following values from the Jira App configuration page:

    - **Jira Base URL**. This tells Octopus where your Jira instance is located and enables Octopus to render the links back to Jira issues. i.e., https://your-jira-instance.atlassian.net.
    - **Jira Connect App Password**.

    Ensure the **Is Enabled** property is set as well.

> 1. Configure the Release Note Options in Octopus Deploy.

Author: ```suggestion
3. In Octopus Deploy Configure the Release Note Options.
```

> 3. In Octopus Deploy Configure the Release Note Options.

Author: ```suggestion
3. In Octopus Deploy Configure the Release Note Options (optional).
```

>     - Jira username/password: Set these values to allow Octopus to connect to Jira and retrieve Jira issue (work item) details when viewing packages or creating releases.

Author: ```suggestion
    - **Jira username/password**: Set these values to allow Octopus to connect to Jira and retrieve Jira issue (work item) details when viewing packages or creating releases.
```

>     - **Jira username/password**: Set these values to allow Octopus to connect to Jira and retrieve Jira issue (work item) details when viewing packages or creating releases.

Author: ```suggestion
    - **Jira username/password**: Set these values to allow Octopus to connect to Jira and retrieve Jira issue (work item) details when viewing packages or creating releases. If these are not provided, just the raw work item references will be used as the work item link descriptions. If they are provided the work item's title will be used as the work item link's description.
```

>     <!-- Lee: I noted work item in brackets above to make the connection between the two terms. Is that sufficent? I've used Jira issue primarily on this page as it's what the audience understands but work item is our term. Need advice on this. -->

Author: ```suggestion
    <!-- Lee: I noted work item in brackets above to make the connection between the two terms. Is that sufficent? I've used Jira issue primarily on this page as it's what the audience understands but work item is our term. Need advice on this. 
    From Lee: I think adding the term in brackets works. IIUC it is an octopus term they're unlikely to need for Jira, but if they are using other integrations they will see it and the connection might help them grok the overall concept. 
    -->
```

>     These are optional and depend on the Jira Base URL. If they are not provided then just the raw work item references will be used as the work item link descriptions. If they are provided the work item's title will be used as the work item link's description.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed as added to previous.

    The password should be an API Token, rather than an actual password. You can create an API token from an Atlassian account in the 'Security' area.
    

>     - Release Note Prefix: Set this if you would like Octopus to scan the Jira issue's comments for release notes. This allows you to set a specific release note for a work item that is different to its title.

Author: ```suggestion
    - **Release Note Prefix**: Set this if you would like Octopus to scan the Jira issue's comments for release notes. This allows you to set a specific release note for a work item that is different to its title.
```

    This is an optional setting and depends on the Jira Username and Jira Password being set. If specified, Octopus will look for a comment that starts with the given prefix text and use whatever text appears after the prefix as the release note, which will come through to the release notes templates etc as the work item link's description. If not comment is found with the prefix then Octopus will default back to using the title for that work item.

    For example, a prefix of `Release note:` can be used to identify a customer friendly issue title vs a technical feature or bug fix title.

1. Ensure the Octopus Server URL in set in Octopus Deploy.

>     Navigate to the **{{Configuration,Nodes}}** page and ensure you have set the Server URI field to your Octopus Server's base URL. i.e., https://my-company.octopus.app/ or https://my-company-internal-name/

Author: ```suggestion
    If you are using Octopus Cloud, this value is automatically set for you. If you are not using Octopus Cloud, navigate to the **{{Configuration,Nodes}}** page and ensure you have set the Server URI field to your Octopus Server's base URL. i.e., https://my-company.octopus.app/ or https://my-company-internal-name/
```

>     Note: Octopus passes this value to Jira so it can build hyperlinks back to the deployments from its UI. It never actually tries to connect to this Url itself.

Author: ```suggestion
    Note: Octopus passes this value to Jira so it can build hyperlinks back to the deployments from its UI. It never actually tries to connect to this Url itself. If you are using Octopus Cloud, this value will be automatically set.
```

---
title: Jira Issue Tracking Integration
description: Configure Jira Cloud and Jira Server issue tracking with Octopus.
---

> **Octopus 2019.4** introduced support to integrate Octopus with Jira Cloud and Jira Server. The integration adds links to Jira issues in release details of your deployments, and adds release notes to Octopus from Jira to help automate the release note process. If you're using Jira Cloud, you can also view release and deployment details from Octopus directly in Jira issues, making it possible to see if the issue has been included in any deployments. This feature builds upon the functionality to [track metadata and work item](/docs/api-and-integration/metadata/index.md) information through your CI/CD pipeline.

Author: ```suggestion
**Octopus 2019.4** introduced support to integrate Octopus with Jira Cloud and Jira Server. The integration adds links to Jira issues in the release details of your deployments, and adds release notes to Octopus from Jira to help automate the release note process. If you're using Jira Cloud, you can also view release and deployment details from Octopus directly in Jira issues, making it possible to see if the issue has been included in any deployments. This feature builds upon the functionality to [track metadata and work item](/docs/api-and-integration/metadata/index.md) information through your CI/CD pipeline.
```

![Octopus release with Jira issues](octopus-release-details.png "width=500")

![Octopus deployment with generated release notes](octopus-release-notes.png "width=500")

This page described how to configure this functionality for Octopus and Jira.

* Learn about [Connecting Jira Server and Octopus Deploy](#connecting-jira-server-and-octopus-deploy)
* Learn about [Connecting Jira Cloud and Octopus Deploy](#connecting-jira-cloud-and-octopus-deploy)

> ---

Author: Is this intentional?

Reviewer: No. Removed! :)

## Connecting Jira Server and Octopus Deploy

This section describes how to configure Octopus Deploy to connect to Jira Server. When configured, this integration always connects to Jira (either from Octopus server itself or via links in the browser). There are no cases where Jira connects to Octopus.

This means you can configure any Octopus instance, whether self-hosted or cloud, to use the Jira integration. The only network connectivity requirements are that your Octopus server and your browser can connect to the Jira Base URL discussed below.

> If you are using Jira Server, see [Connecting Jira Cloud and Octopus Deploy](#connecting-jira-cloud-and-octopus-deploy).

Author: ```suggestion
If you are using Jira Cloud, see [Connecting Jira Cloud and Octopus Deploy](#connecting-jira-cloud-and-octopus-deploy).
```

1. Configure the Jira extension in Octopus Deploy.

    In the Octopus web portal, navigate to **{{Configuration,Settings,Jira Issue Tracker}}** and enter the following values for your Jira instance:

    - **Jira Base URL**. This tells Octopus where your Jira instance is located and enables Octopus to render the links back to Jira issues. i.e., https://your-jira-instance.atlassian.net or https://your-internal-jira-instance/

>     - **Jira Connect App Password**.

Author: Should we say where in Jira this password can be found?

Reviewer: @slewis74 Should this still be here? What would it be for a non-cloud instance? Should we remove it or say ignore it?

Reviewer 2: It shouldn't be here, is only valid for Jira Cloud. And even then, you can't see it anywhere in Jira. It gets generated when you first install the plugin into Jira and then you can't see/edit it after that iirc

Reviewer: Removed! :)

    Ensure the **Is Enabled** property is set as well.

2. In Octopus Deploy Configure the Release Note Options (optional).

    - **Jira username/password**: Set these values to allow Octopus to connect to Jira and retrieve Jira issue (work item) details when viewing packages or creating releases. If these are not provided, just the raw work item references will be used as the work item link descriptions. If they are provided the work item's title will be used as the work item link's description.

    The password should be an API Token, rather than an actual password. You can create an API token from an Atlassian account in the 'Security' area.
    

>     - **Release Note Prefix**: If specified, Octopus will look for a comment that starts with the given prefix text and use whatever text appears after the prefix as the release note, which will come through to the [release notes templates](/docs/api-and-integration/metadata/release-notes-templates.md) etc as the work item link's description. If no comment is found with the prefix then Octopus will default back to using the title for that work item.

Author: ```suggestion
    - **Release Note Prefix**: If specified, Octopus will look for a comment that starts with the given prefix text and use whatever text appears after the prefix as the release note, which will come through to the [release notes templates](/docs/api-and-integration/metadata/release-notes-templates.md) as the work item link's description. If no comment is found with the prefix then Octopus will default back to using the title for that work item.
```
removed etc

2. Configure the Jira extension in Octopus Deploy.

    In the Octopus web portal, navigate to **{{Configuration,Settings,Jira Issue Tracker}}** and copy the following values from the Jira App configuration page:

    - **Jira Base URL**. This tells Octopus where your Jira instance is located and enables Octopus to render the links back to Jira issues. i.e., https://your-jira-instance.atlassian.net.
    - **Jira Connect App Password**.

    Ensure the **Is Enabled** property is set as well.

3. In Octopus Deploy Configure the Release Note Options (optional).

    - **Jira username/password**: Set these values to allow Octopus to connect to Jira and retrieve Jira issue (work item) details when viewing packages or creating releases. If these are not provided, just the raw work item references will be used as the work item link descriptions. If they are provided the work item's title will be used as the work item link's description.

    The password should be an API Token, rather than an actual password. You can create an API token from an Atlassian account in the 'Security' area.
    

>     - **Release Note Prefix**: If specified, Octopus will look for a comment that starts with the given prefix text and use whatever text appears after the prefix as the release note, which will come through to the [release notes templates](/docs/api-and-integration/metadata/release-notes-templates.md) etc as the work item link's description. If no comment is found with the prefix then Octopus will default back to using the title for that work item.

Author: ```suggestion
    - **Release Note Prefix**: If specified, Octopus will look for a comment that starts with the given prefix text and use whatever text appears after the prefix as the release note, which will come through to the [release notes templates](/docs/api-and-integration/metadata/release-notes-templates.md) as the work item link's description. If no comment is found with the prefix then Octopus will default back to using the title for that work item.
```
Removed etc

    For example, a prefix of `Release note:` can be used to identify a customer friendly issue title vs a technical feature or bug fix title.

4. Ensure the Octopus Server URL is set.

    If you are using Octopus Cloud, this value is automatically set for you. If you are not using Octopus Cloud, navigate to the **{{Configuration,Nodes}}** page and ensure you have set the Server URI field to your Octopus Server's base URL. i.e., https://my-company.octopus.app or https://my-company-internal-name

>     Note: Octopus passes this value to Jira so it can build hyperlinks back to the deployments from its UI. It never actually tries to connect to this Url itself.

Author: ```suggestion
    Note: Octopus passes this value to Jira so it can build hyperlinks back to the deployments from the Jira UI. It never actually tries to connect to this Url itself.
```
I think most people would have know what you meant, but for those few who'd have to backtrack and reread.

![Deployment task log](deploy-task-log.png)

> When Octopus successfully sends state changes to Jira, the blocks will appear with green text just like the other blocks in the log.

Author: ```suggestion
When Octopus successfully sends state changes to Jira, the blocks will appear with green text just like the other blocks in the log.

## Next

 - Learn about other [Metadata and Work Items](/docs/api-and-integration/metadata/index.md).
```
